---
created_utc: 2025-09-09T15:00:19.516+00:00
source: screenshot
orig_filename: Screenshot 2025-09-09 203001.png
topics: general
version: 1.0
ocr_engine: tesseract
---

Titanic Mp 139 languages v

Article Talk Read Viewsource Viewhistory Tools v

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Coordinates: @@ 41°43'57'N 49°5649"'W f @))

This article is about the passenger liner. For the film by James Cameron, see Titanic (1997 film). For other uses, see Titanic
(disambiguation).
RMS Titanic was a British ocean liner that sank in the early hours of 15 April
1912 as a result of striking an iceberg on her maiden voyage from Southampton,
England, to New York City, United States. Of the estimated 2,224 passengers |
and crew aboard, approximately 1,500 died (estimates vary), making the incident | i i | }
one of the deadliest peacetime sinkings of a single ship./4] Titanic, operated by “ 1

White Star Line, carried some of the wealthiest people in the world, as well as
hundreds of emigrants from the British Isles, Scandinavia, and elsewhere in

Europe who were seeking a new life in the United States and Canada. The RMS Titanic departing Southampton on 10 April 1912
disaster drew public attention, spurred major changes in maritime safety i.
regulations, and inspired a lasting legacy in popular culture. It was the second

time White Star Line had lost a ship on her maiden voyage, the first being
RMS Tayleur in 1854./°] Q

Titanic was the largest ship afloat upon entering service and the second of three
Olympic-class ocean liners built for White Star Line. The ship was built by the
Harland and Wolff shipbuilding company in Belfast. Thomas Andrews Jr., the Wikimedia zt | © OpenStreetMapcz
chief naval architect of the shipyard, died in the disaster. Titanic was under the Location of Titanic wreck
command of Captain Edward John Smith, who went down with the ship. J. Bruce History

Ismay, White Star Line's chairman, managed to get into a lifeboat and survived. United Kingdom